# NHL-Bounceback-Regression-Prediction
Using machine learning to predict players who are due to have bounce-back or regression seasons in terms of goals scored. 

Uses supervised outlier detection. The user selects an NHL season (e.g. 2020-2021), and the model then trains on all available player data from 2010-2011 up to the season preceding the selected season (e.g. 2019-2020). Intuitively, the model is trying to learn how many goals a player "deserved" to score. The cross validation mean absolute error is roughly 1.6 goals (depending on the season). 

For each player, the model makes a prediction of the number of goals scored during the user's selected season. We compare this to the actual number of goals they scored. To perform outlier detection, in the Find method in utils.py we sort for the players whose actual goal totals differ most drastically from their expected goal totals. Players who scored significantly more goals than the model predicted are said to have "overperformed", while players who scored significantly less than the model predicted are said to have "underperformed". The idea is that each player has a baseline number of goals they "deserved" to score, plus some random noise (intuitively, they got lucky/unlucky). A plot is then generated with the top overperformers and underperformers for the user's selected season; the plot compares their goal totals in the selected season to their goal totals the following season to see if regression to the mean occured the next year.

I've also been turning this into a Dash application to better visualize the data and the results. It is currently deployed here using Heroku: https://outlierdetectionnhl.herokuapp.com
